so I'm going to talk today about given
we've just heard about this awesome
pinning services api's and the the
opportunity to kind of make it easier
for for folks to integrate into other
applications we can talk about where
there's huge opportunities for that how
that makes the user experience and an
adoption flow for people using IPS more
seamless and specifically within some of
the ipfs tools that the teams created to
kind of help help people on board on
type of s and use IP us kind of in their
day-to-day life cycle we'll talk about
how we'll make use of these new pinning
api's as they solidify cool so
generalized skinning api unlocks a whole
ton of new opportunities for all sorts
of application developers in the u.s.
ecosystem a number of folks have already
already seen this pain point and started
just hand rolling this directly so you
see the recent integration with ENS
where you can upload files directly to
ipfs I think they integrated with
temporal to you know easily do that
handshake unstoppable domains has also
done a direct upload to ipfs through
their website portal and a number of
other groups are doing this kind of more
manually and that that process is like
right now very one-off and rather
fragmented when you think about all of
the other tools that exist in I give
this ecosystem crypto wallets
marketplaces tools for kind of content
distribution where you have creators in
charge of the data they're uploading you
can imagine a lot of these wanting to
make use of longer term persistence that
isn't just on their local node where
they're uploading from so in the in the
case where you have n F T's or other
crypto assets you as an owner of these
digital items want to make sure that
they are persisted long term as you can
imagine and much closer integrations
with with NF t wallets like some of the
stuff that Kyle was talking about in the
pinata talk about making sure that your
digital Mona Lisa
doesn't disappear and that you can
ensure for the long haul but that that's
gonna
stick around there's the work kind of
from a an identity document perspective
the stuff that Joel was talking about
four three box and ceramic and other
kind of identity based blockchain
documents where you want to be
persisting your different kind of
domains and other content making sure
that that data records dim blockchains
continues to stick around and making it
really easy for you to persist this
content
there's also things like like with query
where right now you host a lot of
awesome maybe very large data sets that
you're working with other scientists or
people who are analyzing and
manipulating these these version
datasets but maybe you also would like
to have that data persisted and when you
go offline or and pay for additional
folks to follow along and persist the
newer versions and iterations of the
work that you and other others are doing
collaboratively through tools like query
video is another big one right now
there's already a number of tools for
things like view Li and D tube and other
video platforms that allow you upload
and persist videos on those chains
I can imagine this there's more
opportunity to do this a lot more and
integrate it more seamlessly into the
places where where people are uploading
video audience is another example or you
can upload tracks to audience but right
now like making sure that your audio
track sticks around is something that
kind of is still a local IP of us node
or kind of gateway service sort of sort
of activity so again making making these
things available in the city of an
application or user flow so you don't
have to hop sideways fleets another
example I think they handle this kind of
for you they pin the content to two ipfs
but you could imagine kind of making
that so that you as a user who is
uploading a website can more seamlessly
pay for long term persistence for for
your site's hosting
another example is open Bazaar in Haven
so this is where you're having
marketplaces or stores and again right
now you host your own ipfs node you run
it yourself for your store definitely an
opportunity to to kind of bake that in
more seamlessly and if you opportunities
for for services you want to use instead
so we just talked about all of the
different opportunities here from kind
of an ecosystem perspective places where
folks might want to make use of pinning
api's in order to simplify the upload
and persistence flow let's talk a little
bit about some specific tools that we
created just for people in the IFS
ecosystem who are onboarding where we're
running into right now some some
challenges or kind of frustrating user
flows that we think we can simplify
having a more kind of simplified and
consistent API for pinning services okay
so talking specifically about the web UI
which is also the thing that most people
think of from a desktop perspective how
people interact with their own locally
running ipfs node and see all of the
files that they've pinned so this is
just a quote from IPS Desktop github the
the aim here is just to enable you to
interact with and use your local IPS
node really efficiently but it also
enables a number of kind of basic ipfs
actions things like adding data type FS
downloading hashes you see around the
internet
helping pin and persist that data Auto
adding screenshots a lot of the user
flows that emerge out of those
capabilities also want things like
longer term persistence outside of your
own single local ipfs node so great how
could we bring some of that tooling and
capabilities to ipfs desktop and web UI
so I'm gonna walk you through a common
use case that I have since I spend a lot
of my time working with an IP FS blog
I'm sure Jen can also a sympathize with
this from the IP fest newsletter
perspective but a common aim here is
thinking about how do I bring assets
that I want to include or reference in a
blog post and I also want these assets
to be hosted on ipfs images you can
imagine you know great blogs can handle
images but what about video and there's
a lot of other types of assets you might
want to include and reference and you
want them all to be distributed over IP
FS and right now this isn't actually a
super seamless experience for
a normal blog creator so right now if
I'm creating my blog on ipfs and
uploading it
I might have videos or images that I
that I need to include but when I'm
actually going and doing the writing and
inserting these these assets my
experience isn't super seamless either I
need to use my local IP FS desktop to
upload a file to ipfs but then I have
the downside that if my computer ever
goes offline my my local laptop then
hold on our blog is no longer able to
load that video or load that image
that's not what I want so I have to go
to something like pinata another service
and either take that hash that I've
already uploaded off my local machine
and so that it can be pinned to other
more resilient services or I have to
upload that file directly through pinata
kind of like another external hop from
the thing that I'm kind of running
locally already and that's yeah it's not
a great super simplified user experience
and flow to hop between multiple
different places and it's super similar
to the the kind of frustration you'd
experience across a lot of these other
sites like vu Lee or audience or d2
Hooper query where again you don't want
to upload data from your local node to
one of these services and then also have
to hop to a different UI I'm in order to
make sure that data is persisted copying
over hashes or me uploading files we've
already connected so instead of that how
do we bring two links directly into the
application having a similar pinning API
enables us to actually integrate this
work directly into the products were
creating so the the mocks we have for
this and our attention to plan going
forward is to actually out of space
within the web UI specifically for
configuring persistence options so we
add a new icon over here on the left and
this gives you the default which is
great you can store things locally on
your local ipfs node and get a little
bit of data about you know how much data
you're storing how much bandwidth it's
using
but you can also add other services and
anyone can come and PPR support for
assistance services into the web UI so
that you can select one of a one of the
pending service providers who implement
this pinning service API and you can
then select one of these and configure
it for your local ipfs node and so if
say I selected in Fira
I can label it if maybe I have multiple
in Fira accounts a work account in a
personal account I can use my secret API
key so I don't have to worry about like
additional sign-in or any worries about
like configuring you know worried about
syncing data between two different
portals and I can decide how much of the
content within my node I want to auto
upload either all my content or just the
things that I've pinned or other things
like that and then I can configure lots
of these and so I have the different
pinning api's that I support maybe I
want to have multiple so I can do
replication across many different
service provider sites and it's really
easy for me to configure this hop over
and configure my settings within one of
these pinning services directly and then
change and configure them and this means
that great now all of my data that I add
to my local ipfs desktop or my local
ipfs node through web UI and can just
get automatically persisted to the cloud
the interwebs to others who are helping
make sure that when my note goes offline
all this data sticks around and so
that's that's the future integrating
these sorts of persistence capabilities
directly into the tools that people use
makes them more useful more intuitive
and then also helps helps clarify to
people like hey I need to be thinking
about where my data stays for the long
term and for all the people who offer
pinning services and and kind of
persistence opportunities and this
creates adoption funnels and and a
direct connection with people who want
to make use of those sorts of services
and so excited to see other other groups
make use of this and having something
like a very generalized pinning API so
you can very easily mix and match if
it's not a one-off manual a degree
for every pending service we want to add
makes this really easy for many groups
to use so we're excited to do this
specifically within I could mess web UI
and desktop but I'm very confident that
many other groups are going to be very
excited about this as well and about
integrating this sort of support
directly into their applications you can
see that it groups like ENS and
unstoppable domains have already done it
I expect many others to follow to make
something really easy cool so very
excited this is you know a new a new
effort that we're pushing forward
excited to work with everyone here to
actually help make that happen and make
it a reality
and happy to also talk with folks about
ways that we can do it together